In this grade math function composition is the pointwise application of function to the result of another
one.
For instance if I have function f that takes value from set x and returns a value from I and I also
have a function g that takes value from I and returns value from Z.
And now I can do composition of these two and it looks like this.
So first we have g.
Then there is the circle and then a function f and this G circle f basically means this.
So f grab some X and returns us some.
And then function g tags D I that f returned and turns it into z.
So this position is basically a function from x to z.
Right.
Think of it this way you graph some x and you first base it into f eth does some computing and pass
is the result.
A.G. And finally G returns as the final result.
Bob it is not so easy.
There can be a problem.
We must accept everything that returns.
So in this case it works because APH returns some element from set by and we take some element from
set.
But you need to keep this in mind.
So let's take a look at some examples.
So I have here a function f that takes some natural number and returns a natural number and it is defined
as is equal to x times 2.
And then I have a function g that takes some natural number and address turns some integer number and
it is the find as I.
Is equal to x minus 2.
So let's see how composition of these two looks like.
So for example when I call this with free I will pass free to f f will return free times to.
Because I is X times 2.
So that is 6 and then I pass the 6 into G and what G does.
Well it just subtract 2 from the value that you have passed.
So the final result will be 4.
Let's try it again with 5.
I pass 5 into f f will return.
Then g is whatever f returned.
In this case it is then subtract 2 from it and return the final result.
In this case a.
I hope this makes sense.
Let's take a look at another example in here.
I get asked that takes some natural number and returns us some rational number and it is defined as
is equal to 2 divided by x then I have function g that takes some natural number and returns as other
natural number and it is defined as is equal to 2 times X minus 1 and I want to do composition of these
two.
So let's try the same thing.
Let's go this composition with one.
So I grab one pass it into f f returns us two divided by 1 and that is just two right.
So g grabs this number and returns us two times to minus 1 and that is free and that is the final result.
But maybe try this with free we pass free into f.
Returns us two thirds.
Bob here comes the problem.
G accepts only natural numbers and as you should already know two thirds is not a natural number.
It is rational number.
So that is why you cannot compose these two functions because G cannot handle two thirds as a input.
I hope this makes sense and I think it does so.
That is pretty much it for this lecture.
If you have any questions feel free to ask and I will see you next time.